They were speechless when they heard she would leave home and join full-time service.
Instead of pursuing their common goals, dreams and hopes, she would do whatever she was told to do.
What is sacrifice? They were so proud of her and they started thinking about what to do in order to support her.
Who are we talking about? Let us open to Judges 11.
And let's find out who they were and what they did.
They are soon to be graduates. What they did is something that will help you to succeed in your
assignment. Let's read please Judges 11 verse 40. From year to year, the young women of Israel
would go to give commendation to the daughter of Jeff DeGilia died four days in the year.
The young women of Israel went to the sanctuary in Shiloh in order to give commendation and praise
to the daughter of Jeff DeGilia. Commendation strengthened this full-time servant of Jehovah.
Is this not what you want to do too? So that's why we have the question for you.
How often will you go to Shiloh? Will you strengthen others and stabilize the organization by
regularly commending and praising others? Let us therefore ask the following questions. What type of
commendation is effective in strengthening others? How can you imitate the young women of Israel and
why do you want to give commendation regularly? Let's start with the first question.
What type of commendation is effective in strengthening others? And let us please look at the
example that Jesus said as we turn to Mark chapter 5. Here he comments the frightened sick woman
who touched his outer garment. As we read Mark chapter 5 verse 354, please watch out for five
elements of effective commendation. Mark 5 verse 34, he said to her, daughter, your faith has made
you well. Go in peace and be healed from your crevice sickness. Did you know what made this
commendation effective? First, effective commendation is specific. Jesus commanded the woman
for what she did. Her faith moved her to act. Effective commendation is sincere. The woman's faith
was real and outstanding. Did you notice that Jesus did not use the opportunity to counsel her
for violating the law? This might have made his commendation sound insincere.
Third, effective commendation is personal. Jesus used the expression, daughter, that expression
emphasized his tender concern for her. Fourth, effective commendation is more than words. Jesus
acknowledged the needs of the woman and followed up with deeds. He healed her. And fifth, effective
commendation is unselfish. Jesus did not commend the woman in order to make himself look good,
but he was concerned about her and wanted to make her feel good. Now, can you do the same?
Let's go back to Judges 11 and let's look again at verse 40. So this is Judges 11, verse 40.
And let's answer the second question, how can you imitate the young women of Israel?
So the verse started here in verse 40 saying, from year to year. So this means regularly,
repeatedly. The young women would praise the same person again and again. In your assignment,
as you work with others in Bethel in the ministry or watch them in your congregation,
can you repeatedly praise them? For instance, could you praise them for their zeal,
their fine efforts or for their acts of love? Could you send an up building text message saying,
great job, well done, thumbs up, loved it. Maybe along with the brief comment,
these messages do not require a lot of effort and time, but they can go a long way.
One time is not enough. Do it again and again. Don't worry, the person could get a big head.
In the Bible, Jehovah praised and commanded the persons that he loved repeatedly.
Commending others again and again is a good thing. Now, the verse continues here saying,
the young women of Israel would go to give commendation to the daughter of Jeff Ta, the Gilead
died four days in the year. Being away from their family obligation must have been a sacrifice.
Somebody else must have taken over their usual work. They had to travel to Shiloh,
and they may also have brought a gift. Now could this serve as a reminder that giving
commendation might sometimes require a little bit more time and effort? Can come at a personal cost?
Yes. Calling somebody or visiting him requires time and effort. Spending time with your brother
and sister honors them. Being out with them in the ministry, working together on the project
or asking them for advice really makes them feel good and can be a powerful commendation.
It's worth all it costs. Timing is important too. Proverbs 15, verse 23 states,
a word spoken at the right time. How good is it? So what is the right time for commendation?
The verses leading up to our theme scripture here mentioned that Jeff does daughter right away
got much needed support. So generally speaking, commendation is of greatest value when it's given
as soon as the opportunity comes up, even if it's initially just a brief comment.
The sooner somebody receives positive feedback, the quicker feelings of insecurity or doubts will
vanish and the sooner the other person will be happy and feel good. Please do not wait too long
but act right away. Now this leads us to our third and final question. Why do you want to give
commendation regularly? As you go to your assignments, you will be surrounded by many daughters
of chapter, faithful, full-time servants of Jehovah who made sacrifices to serve.
This auditorium is full of them and you are among them. You will meet brothers and sisters
in the congregation and some of them are insecure, worried. Sometimes doubt that they are worth
anything. They are giving their very best to stay faithful despite challenges, fighting with their
own imperfection, dealing with the results of their own mistakes and are sometimes discouraged
because of setbacks. They need commendation. We all need commendation. Because commendation
enhances a person's self-esteem, it builds confidence and motivates to action.
It reinforces our desire to do good things and it encourages us to keep on doing our very best.
Please go to Shiloh as often as possible. Now there's another important aspect.
The reality is that when you work closely with brothers and sisters, you see their
flaws and mistakes. So what you're going to do? Will you ignore that person? Or will you try to imitate
Jehovah who is searching for the good in us? Make it a habit to search for the good and then give
voice to the positive. Now what happens to us if we are doing it bad way? It can change us.
It can change us from being a complainer to being a commander. A commander focuses on the good
in others. He sees the others with Jehovah's eyes. A commander is very happy because he sees
all the beauty around him. So if you gain a reputation for commanding rather than complaining,
you will succeed in your assignment because others will love to work with you.
They are soon to be graduates of the 151st Class of Gilead. Please make commanding and praising others
part of your personality, something that comes naturally. So often will you go to Shiloh?
Please go to Shiloh as often as possible.